{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red84\green0\blue1;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\vieww9600\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://creskolab.uoregon.edu/stacks/vstacks/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0 \cf2 http://creskolab.uoregon.edu/stacks/vstacks/}}\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720
\cf0 \
Mac OS X Development:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720

\b0 \cf0 Nathan Dunn\super 1
\b \nosupersub \
\
Stacks Design and Implementation:
\b0 \
Julian Catchen\super 2\nosupersub \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720

\b \cf0 Stacks Protocol Development:
\b0 \
William Cresko\super 2\nosupersub , Paul Hohenlohe\super 4\nosupersub , Angel Amores\super 3\nosupersub , Susan Bassham\super 2\nosupersub , John Postlethwait\super 3\nosupersub \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720
\cf0 \super 1 \nosupersub College of Arts and Science, Department of Computer Science, University of Oregon\super \
2\nosupersub  Institute for Ecology and Evolution, University of Oregon\super \
3\nosupersub  Institute of Neuroscience, University of Oregon\
\super 4\nosupersub  Department of Biology, University of Idaho\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720

\b \cf0 Funding:
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 Development of this software was funded by grants from the National Science Foundation (IOS-1027283, DEB-0949053) and the National Institute of Health (1R24GM079486-01A1 and the NRSA Ruth L. Kirschstein fellowship F32GM095213-01).  Further funding was provided by the University of Oregon Office of Research, Innovation, and Graduate Education and the University of Oregon College of Arts and Sciences Information Technology department.\
\

\b License:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 This vSTACKS Application End Use License Agreement (\'93Agreement\'94) is between You and University of Oregon and its affiliates (\'93UO\'94). This License governs your use of the vSTACKS Application and any and all related documentation, and updates and upgrades that replaces or supplements the software in any respect and which are not distributed with a separate license (collectively the \'93Application\'94). By accepting the Agreement and/or using the Application, you agree to be bound by the Agreement.  \
\
BY INSTALLING OR USING THE APPLICATION YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THEM.  If you do not agree to the terms of this License and /or Terms of use, then do not install or use the application\
\
\
1. Incorporation.\
\
This agreement incorporates by reference the Licensed Application End User License Agreement (The \'93LAEULA\'94) published by Apple, Inc. (located online at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/legal/itunes/ap"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.apple.com/legal/itunes/appstore/dev/stdeula/}}). For purposes of this Agreement, UO is considered the \'93Application Provider\'94 as defined in the LAEULA. If any terms of this Agreement conflict with the terms of the LAEULA, the terms of this Agreement shall control.\
\
2. Grant. \
\
2.1 Commencing on the Effective Date, and provided you conform to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, UO hereby grants and You accept a limited, non-exclusive license to use the Application.\
\
2.2 You shall not distribute, publish, sell, import or otherwise transfer or allow to be transferred the Application or copies thereof, in whole or in part, to third parties without the prior written permission of UO. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb2\sa2
\cf0 2.3 The Application and its contents are intended solely for the personal, non-commercial, educational use and may only be used in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. You shall abide by all copyright notices, trademark rules, information, and restrictions contained in any content accessed or submitted through use of the Application.
\fs22 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 \
2.4 In the course of using the Application, You and other users may provide information, which may be used by UO in connection with the Application. \
\
3. Your Obligations\
\
3.1 If you are accepting this Agreement on behalf of a minor, you represent and warrant that you have the authority to enter into this Agreement on behalf of that minor. You also certify that you are legally permitted to use and access the Application online. The Agreement is void where prohibited by law.  \
\
4. Access\
\
4.1 The Application is available for download in the Mac App Store.  \
\
4.2 In the event You experience difficulties accessing or using the Application contact Julian Catchen (jcatchen@uoregon.edu) or Nathan Dunn (ndunn@uoregon.edu). \
\
5. Personal Information.\
\
5.1 Use of the application requires your user name and email address (collectively \'93Your Information\'94) connected with your account to the Apple Computing Device used to access the Application. \
\
5.2 UO makes no warranty that a third party cannot decrypt Your Information should a third party come into possession of your Device. \
\
6. Term.\
\
6.1 Provided that the Agreement is not otherwise terminated as provided below, and that You agree to amendments and changes to this Agreement as UO makes from time to time, this Agreement shall be in effect for as long as UO provides access to the Application. \
\
7. Termination\
\
7.1 You may terminate this Agreement at any time. \
\
7.2 UO may immediately terminate this Agreement at its discretion, upon written notice (email) if You are in breach of this Agreement.  UO\'92s right to terminate under this clause is in addition to any and all other legal remedies which UO may have for the enforcement of any and all terms thereof, and do not in any way limit any other legal remedy UO may have.\
\
7.3 Termination of this Agreement will terminate all rights and licenses granted to You relating to the Application.\
\
8. Disclaimer of Warranties. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb2\sa2
\cf0 8.1. YOU EXPRESSLY AGREE THAT APPLICATION IS PROVIDED ON AN \'91AS IS\'92 BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF TITLE, NONINFRINGEMENT OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OTHER THAN THOSE WARRANTIES WHICH ARE IMPLIED BY AND INCAPABLE OF EXCLUSION, RESTRICTION OR MODIFICATION UNDER APPLICABLE LAW.      \
\
8.2. IN NO EVENT SHALL UO BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF BUSINESS OR PROFITS, DATA, OR FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF ORGANIZATION WAS PREVIOUSLY ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY OTHER CLAIM BY YOU OR ANY OTHER PERSON.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
9. Indemnification\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb2\sa2
\cf0 9.1 To the extent allowed by controlling law, You shall indemnify and hold harmless UO and its officers, faculty, employees, students and agents, against any and all third party claims, suits, losses, damages, costs, fees and expenses resulting from Your use of the Application (\'93University Claims\'94), including but not limited to any damages, losses or liabilities whatsoever with respect to death or injury to any person and damage to any property. This indemnification clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement. 
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\
}